[MUSIC]
>> Mike North: Loading and error substates
have to do with what's happening as you
transition from one route to another
route and in your model hook or
your before model hook or your after
model hook you've returned a promise.
So what's happening while we're waiting?
So what ends up happening is
you're in this intermediate state.
You're in this loading state that
is part of the state machine but
it does not correspond to a url.
It is sort of a waiting state that you're
in until that promise resolves and
then you pop out of it.
So similarly there is an error sub
state and the idea here is that if you
requested something and your promise
rejected instead of resolving.
You'd end up in an error.
>> Mike North: Make sense so far?
So in addition,
when you error, when you reach this error
state, it is usually the result of either
firing the error action explicitly or
a promise in your model hook rejecting.
This error action on the route in question
where the error happened will fire.
And you usually will want to handle
something specific like maybe
a 404, in a way that informs the user that
they've typed something in that's wrong or
they're lost and click here to search and
find whatever you really need
versus like a 500 which is sort
of a catchall server blew up.
And those you would sort of let fall
through to a generic error page
of some sort.
So I'm gonna show you how to set
up loading in error substates,
and then we're gonna really quickly add it
to this app that we've been working on.
>> Mike North: So this is quiet easy.
All you have to do,
>> Mike North: Is add a template
called loading.hbs.
>> Mike North: And
this will give you some style for
your loading substate.
So if we go loading dot dot dot dot dot
and we don't really even see anything.
And the reason is there's no waiting yet,
it's fast and
especially on this page we're
literally returning an array literal.
>> Mike North: But if we go in here and
for no good reason at all add a promise
that resolves in a couple seconds.
>> Mike North: All right, and
I will explain what all this is doing.
It's not incredibly important but
essentially, one thing I forgot.
So ember run later, there's this
concept of a run loop in ember and
it's a prioritized work queue and
it is sort of the magic behind
efficient DOM updates, where if you set
17 properties in an action and
it will result in 17 DOM changes,
potentially things changing back and
forth and back and forth.
Ultimately, all of that is
sort of lumped together and
only the ultimate changed state will
be what drives an update to the DOM.
And so, what we're doing here is
instead of using set time out,
which will just happen at an arbitrary
time, we're scheduling a task to be put
into this work queue no earlier
than 3,000 milliseconds from now.
And here we're creating our own
promise and we're resolving
with the same array literal but
we're gonna resolve three seconds
later.
>> Mike North: There you go.
That's it, loading.hbs is all you need.
All the rest of this was just
to make it so you could see it.
But loading.hbs.
Now we know that these
routes load in a hierarchy.
So I'm gonna add some more delay.
That was a real wait by the way.
Let's see.
Wow, that's getting frustratingly long.
[LAUGH] We're gonna go back to,
one second.
>> Mike North: So
here, this is actually the API
request just for a moment.
Taking a second.
So we can put another
loading.hbs inside a route.
So you remember when I was looking at
the ember inspector earlier and we
peeked through and saw that there were a
ton of routes that we hadn't talked about?
Right, so we've go the application
loading, which we've actually
supplied a template for, but we've got
orgs loading and we've got org error.
So error and loading substates can
exist at many different levels.
So if you wanted to have a different
spinner or something, while you're looking
for an org or more than likely an error
page that says, this org was not found.
That can be sort of a localized specific
thing that pertains only to that,
only to pivots that are on
that particular node in this
hierarchy of routes
>> Mike North: So
let me see if I can illustrate
that with an example.
So if we make loading.hbs, and
there it is.
>> Mike North: There it is.
>> Mike North: Okay I gotta slow that down
but [LAUGH] it's unfortunate
that GitHub's API is
sub performing it's screwing my demo up.
>> Mike North: Promise, resolve, reject,
arrow.
>> Mike North: Then.
>> Mike North: All right so
there's our initial load.
What's going on here.
>> Mike North: org.js.
>> Mike North: I'm going to remove this at
our loading state.
I'm not sure what all is going on there.
>> Mike North: I have to admit,
this is not working how I expected.
>> Mike North: You know what,
I'm just going to try this.
We'll just go with the initial thing.
>> Mike North: So it's very hard to see.
I know what I can do.
Chrome to the rescue.
I'm gonna throttle my
network speed way down.
So we're gonna simulate Edge network.
GPRS, the good stuff.
>> Mike North: Maybe we'll
recap this tomorrow.
I have to investigate what's
going wrong here but for
those of you who can see the live view,
we were seeing a loading state
blink briefly
>> Mike North: When that
API call is being made.
Maybe if we delete this.
>> Mike North: Come on.
>> Mike North: Yeah,
I think I'll demo this tomorrow,
after I figure out what's going on here
since we're at the end of the day here.
>> Speaker 2: There were couple of
questions.
>> Mike North: Yep.
>> Speaker 2: Do you mind answering them?
One of them was that kind
of what you're doing.
If a child route is loading and
it doesn't have a loading.hbs.
Does it default to
the parents loading template?
>> Mike North: Yes, it should.
But it will bubble up until it finds
a defined loading substate.
>> Speaker 2: Okay.
>> Mike North: So it will not
go all the way up to, like if
the parent doesn't have one either,
it will basically keep traversing upward.
>> Speaker 2: The other question was
the model four.
Is this a desired way to
share data between routes or
are services preferred?
>> Mike North: So,
our use of a service, so if the data
that you're sharing between routes is
resolved models from routes,
you should be using model four.
If you're sharing application state or
a singular piece of data that is
needed throughout the application like
the currently logged in user,
that's what a service is for.
And it's worth noting that you don't
have access to model four in things like
a component, whereas you can totally use
a service to share data with a component.
So in the context of routes,
it seems like we could do both, but
one is extremely general and
the other is route specific.
>> Speaker 3: [INAUDIBLE]
>> Mike North: You're asking me to
speculate on something that's currently
in a polar class and
like it could turn out that way.
Controllers right now have
direct access to the store.
And I think the paradigm is going to be,
provide a mechanism for
injecting behavior onto
components that might need it.
Like inject the store as
a service onto component.
Rather than just a blanket access because
many components don't need any knowledge
of that,
only the top level routed components.
>> Speaker 3: So when you're talking
about the store that's the [INAUDIBLE]
>> Mike North: The store?
>> Speaker 3: It's however data is
exposed, is it gets injected [INAUDIBLE]
>> Mike North: Actually
all of the frameworks use the same thing.
In Flux you have a store.
In Ember data you have a store.
In Angular data you have a store.
And the idea is, especially if you
have some sort of caching solution,
you want a central place to
be able to request records
of a given type to create new records
that originate on the client.
We'll get into all of that tomorrow
when we dive into Ember data.